Ellis Wackett (13 August 1901 – 3 August 1984) was a senior commander in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Its chief engineer from 1935 to 1959, he served on the RAAF's Air Board for a record seventeen years and was credited with infusing operations with new standards of airworthiness. Starting as a Royal Australian Navy cadet, he transferred to the Air Force in 1923. He inaugurated parachute instruction within the RAAF and made the country's first freefall descent from a military aircraft in 1926. Wackett rose to air commodore by 1942, assuming the role of Air Member for Engineering and Maintenance, then established the Technical Branch as a separate department of the RAAF in 1948. He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire and Companion of the Order of the Bath. From 1960 to 1968, he was a member of the Australian National Airlines Commission, the parent of Trans Australia Airlines. (Full article...)

Recently featured: Yongle EmperorGrey-cowled wood railToys for Bob
ArchiveBy emailMore featured articlesAbout
Did you know ...
The Building Worker
The Building Worker
... that construction workers gather annually at a statue in London (pictured) to commemorate those who died the previous year?
... that spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 slows voluntary eye movement?
... that stolen stationery from the Philippine consulate in Seattle was used to address a Washington superior court judge in 1954?
... that the Epano Phournos tholos tomb appears to have been robbed during the Late Bronze Age, only a few centuries after it was built?
... that Witch and Hound was inspired by the author dreaming about witches flying around dinosaurs?
... that Vanillamace spent six years dancing at a strip club before creating content full-time?
... that Rizalito David, a 2022 Philippine vice-presidential candidate, endorsed a presidential candidate other than his running mate?
... that Saw: Genesis appeared on Steam in an "apparently premature" reveal before its Summer Game Fest presentation?
... that the next series of euro banknotes will feature either people or birds, but not both?
ArchiveStart a new articleNominate an article
In the news
Earthquake damage in Pereira, Colombia
Earthquake damage in Pereira, Colombia
A magnitude 7.4 earthquake (damage pictured) strikes Chocó Department, Colombia, leaving at least 254 people dead.
In cycling, Demi Vollering wins the Tour de France Femmes.
Shootings at a residence and a school in Nonthaburi province, Thailand, leave at least nine people dead.
A consortium led by Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund purchases video game publisher Electronic Arts in a leveraged buyout.
Ongoing: Iran war (Lebanon war)Russo-Ukrainian war timeline
Recent deaths: William OrbitZoltán MelisPhilip RuppeJimmy CricketBruno CampanellaSydney Towle
More current eventsNominate an article
On this day
August 13

Scene from the 1876 production of Das Rheingold
Scene from the 1876 production of Das Rheingold
582 – Maurice was crowned as Byzantine emperor, succeeding Tiberius II Constantine.
1650 – General George Monck founded Monck's Regiment of Foot, the predecessor to the Coldstream Guards, the oldest regular regiment of the British Army in continuous active service.
1876 – A performance of Das Rheingold (scene pictured) opened the first performance of Richard Wagner's Ring cycle at the inaugural Bayreuth Festival, attended by emperors and other composers.
1918 – Opha May Johnson became the first woman to enlist in the United States Marine Corps.
2010 – After being boarded by Canadian authorities, MV Sun Sea docked in British Columbia and the 492 Sri Lankan Tamil re